Inflight Magazine no. 08 (#819)
winglang/docsite: blog/2024-03-13-magazine-008.md

hide_table_of_contents: true
---
> The 8th issue of the Wing Inflight Magazine.
> <!--truncate-->

Hello Wingnuts!

We are back with another issue of the **Wing Inflight Magazine** and excited to share some updates about [Winglang](https://winglang.io), **an open source-programming language for the ☁️ cloud**.

Wing is shipped with a **powerful cloud simulator** which allows developers to write and test complete cloud application without having to deploy anything to the cloud.

The language combines cloud infrastructure ***and*** runtime into a single programming model and **compiles to Terraform/CloudFormation and JavaScript** that are ready to deploy to AWS, GCP and Azure (see [support matrix](https://www.winglang.io/docs/standard-library/compatibility-matrix)).

It is designed to be a **familiar and friendly** language to learn for developers who come from modern object-oriented background, so it will take you [5 minutes](https://github.com/winglang/workshop-react/blob/main/cheatsheet.md) to learn.

Check out our [getting started tutorial](https://www.winglang.io/docs/) or hit the [Wing Playground](https://www.winglang.io/play/) for an online experience.

### In today's issue

> - 🚀 [Deploying AWS resources and APIs inside a private VPCs](#)

Author: Links

Author: Fixed

Check out a recording of this [online workshop](https://youtu.be/1o5dk4S82_o?si=mvHGaYBJtGTj2Fi8) by [Hasan Abu-Rayyan](https://github.com/hasanaburayyan) from the Wing core team, where he talks about this use case and walks through an example.

[Ruslan Kazakov](https://github.com/rkazakov) from Sydney, Australia wrote about his experience in [a blog post](https://medium.com/bear-plus/secure-your-vpc-endpoint-for-api-gateway-with-winglang-235a5f8af072) :

> ”Wing made all the difference! After struggling for days with the CDK, I turned to Wing and had a fully functional Private API Gateway up and running within hours. Its simplicity and power are unparalleled. Thank you, Wing, for saving me time and headaches!”

### A fresh look for the Wing Console map view

We gave the map view in Wing Console some love, improved colors, cleaned up the UI and polished the interactions:

> <ReactPlayer width="50%" height="50%" playing loop muted url={console_new_look}/>

Reviewer: Nothing is displayed...

Author: See [preview](https://wing-docs-git-eladb-inflight-magazine-7-monada.vercel.app/blog/2024/03/13/magazine-008)

We are designing Wing to be **familiar and friendly** for developers who come from modern object-oriented background, so it will take you [5 minutes](https://github.com/winglang/workshop-react/blob/main/cheatsheet.md) to learn.

Check out our [getting started tutorial](https://www.winglang.io/docs/) or hit the [Wing Playground](https://www.winglang.io/play/) for an online experience.

### In today's issue

- 🚀 [Deploying AWS resources and APIs inside a private VPCs](#w1)
- 🎨 [A fresh look for the Wing Console map view](#w2)
- 🤩 [New syntax for creating sets](#w3)
- 🔥 [Mutually referential type declarations](#w4)
- 🛟 [The bang `!` operator](#w5)
- 🏋️ [Ability to lift collection of inflight closures](#w6)
- 🗄️ [`fs.appendFile()`](#w7)
- ⚙ [Platform Parameters and AWS VPC configuration](#w8)
- 🛌 [Ergonomic improvements for `cloud.Function` and `cloud.Api`](#w9)
- 🎥 [Goodies from the Wingly Update](#w10)
- 👯‍♀️ [Community Events](#w11)

> > NOTE: I spent like two hours trying to figure out the right emojis here so please take a minute to appreciate them :-)

Reviewer: :)

### Deploying AWS resources and APIs inside a private VPCs
<a id="w1"></a>

![](./2024-03-13-private-api.png)

Users tell us they are looking for ways to deploy API-based services inside their VPCs. We've spent some time learning about [the challenges people have](https://www.winglang.io/blog/2024/02/15/private-api-gateways) and figured we can offer a awesome experience in Wing for this use case.

> We published this [blog post](https://www.winglang.io/blog/2024/02/09/private-api-gateway-aws) which describes how to configure the `tf-aws` platform to deploy your application's AWS resources and APIs inside a VPC, with support for creating a whole new VPC or deploying into a VPC that's already setup in your environment.

Reviewer: Do you mind changing the blog post to something like guide/tutorial?

Author: done

Check out a recording of this [online workshop](https://youtu.be/1o5dk4S82_o?si=mvHGaYBJtGTj2Fi8) by [Hasan Abu-Rayyan](https://github.com/hasanaburayyan) from the Wing core team, where he talks about this use case and walks through an example.

[Ruslan Kazakov](https://github.com/rkazakov) from Sydney, Australia wrote about his experience in [a blog post](https://medium.com/bear-plus/secure-your-vpc-endpoint-for-api-gateway-with-winglang-235a5f8af072) :

> ”Wing made all the difference! After struggling for days with the CDK, I turned to Wing and had a fully functional Private API Gateway up and running within hours. Its simplicity and power are unparalleled. Thank you, Wing, for saving me time and headaches!”

### A fresh look for the Wing Console map view
<a id="w2"></a>

We gave the map view in Wing Console some love, improved colors, cleaned up the UI and polished the interactions:

> ![](./2024-03-13-console-new-look.mp4)

Reviewer: There is no image there

Author: Fixed. It's a video

### In today's issue

- 🚀 [Deploying AWS resources and APIs inside a private VPCs](#w1)
- 🎨 [A fresh look for the Wing Console map view](#w2)
- 🤩 [New syntax for creating sets](#w3)
- 🔥 [Mutually referential type declarations](#w4)
- 🛟 [The bang `!` operator](#w5)
- 🏋️ [Ability to lift collection of inflight closures](#w6)
- 🗄️ [`fs.appendFile()`](#w7)
- ⚙ [Platform Parameters and AWS VPC configuration](#w8)
- 🛌 [Ergonomic improvements for `cloud.Function` and `cloud.Api`](#w9)
- 🎥 [Goodies from the Wingly Update](#w10)
- 👯‍♀️ [Community Events](#w11)

> NOTE: I spent like two hours trying to figure out the right emojis here so please take a minute to appreciate them :-)

### Deploying AWS resources and APIs inside a private VPCs
<a id="w1"></a>

![](./2024-03-13-private-api.png)

Users tell us they are looking for ways to deploy API-based services inside their VPCs. We've spent some time learning about [the challenges people have](https://www.winglang.io/blog/2024/02/15/private-api-gateways) and figured we can offer a awesome experience in Wing for this use case.

> We published this [blog post](https://www.winglang.io/blog/2024/02/09/private-api-gateway-aws) which describes how to configure the `tf-aws` platform to deploy your application's AWS resources and APIs inside a VPC, with support for creating a whole new VPC or deploying into a VPC that's already setup in your environment.

Author: ```suggestion
We published a [guide](https://www.winglang.io/blog/2024/02/09/private-api-gateway-aws) which describes how to configure the `tf-aws` platform to deploy your application's AWS resources and APIs inside a VPC, with support for creating a whole new VPC or deploying into a VPC that's already setup in your environment.
```
